[All hosts](code samples) Revamp code sample section for better discoverability (#2931)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/overview/office-add-in-code-samples.md

---
title: Office Add-in code samples

> description: 'Office Add-in code samples'

Reviewer: Can we have a more, well, descriptive description here?

Author: yes, added.

ms.date: 09/09/2021
localization_priority: high
---

# Office Add-in code samples

> The code samples listed in this article are written to help you learn how to use various features when developing Office Add-ins.

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for brevity.
```suggestion
These code samples are written to help you learn how to use various features when developing Office Add-ins.
```

## Outlook

| Name                | Description         |

> |:--------------------|:--------------------|

Reviewer 3: David, when I view the readme and click the all the links, I get page not found.

Reviewer 2: Yeah. the air-gap requirements (shortened docs.microsoft.com links) don't work well with the [staging site](https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/overview/office-add-in-code-samples?branch=pr-en-us-2931) since the linked repo doesn't have the same branch name. My trick for testing links like this is to open the link in a new tab, then remove the `review` part of the URL. So, in this case
"https://review.docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients?branch=pr-en-us-2931"
becomes
"https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients?branch=pr-en-us-2931"
(That ignores the branch attribute of the URL query because it takes you to the published site.)

Reviewer 3: Yup I verified the links work as expected when constructed that way. Thanks for verifying.

> | [Use Outlook event-based activation to tag external recipients (preview)](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user changes recipients while composing a message. The add-in also uses the appendOnSendAsync API to add a disclaimer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Use Outlook event-based activation to tag external recipients (preview)](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user changes recipients while composing a message. The add-in also uses the `appendOnSendAsync` API to add a disclaimer. |
```

> | [Use Outlook event-based activation to tag external recipients (preview)](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients) | This sample uses event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user changes recipients while composing a message. The add-in also uses the appendOnSendAsync API to add a disclaimer. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Use Outlook event-based activation to tag external recipients (preview)](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-tag-external-recipients) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user changes recipients while composing a message. The add-in also uses the appendOnSendAsync API to add a disclaimer. |
```

> | [Use Outlook event-based activation to set the signature](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-set-signature/) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user creates a new message or appointment. The add-in can respond to events, even when the task pane is not open. It also uses the setSignatureAsync API. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Use Outlook event-based activation to set the signature](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-set-signature/) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user creates a new message or appointment. The add-in can respond to events, even when the task pane is not open. It also uses the `setSignatureAsync` API. |
```

> | [Use Outlook event-based activation to set the signature](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-set-signature/) | This sample uses event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user creates a new message or appointment. The add-in can respond to events, even when the task pane is not open. It also uses the setSignatureAsync API. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Use Outlook event-based activation to set the signature](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-set-signature/) | Use event-based activation to run an Outlook add-in when the user creates a new message or appointment. The add-in can respond to events, even when the task pane is not open. It also uses the setSignatureAsync API. |
```

## Excel

| Name                | Description         |
|:--------------------|:--------------------|

> | [Open in Teams](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-excel-add-in-open-in-teams/) | Creates a new Excel spreadsheet in Microsoft Teams containing data you define.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Open in Teams](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-excel-add-in-open-in-teams/) | Create a new Excel spreadsheet in Microsoft Teams containing data you define.|
```

> | [Create custom contextual tabs on the ribbon](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-contextual-tabs/) | This sample shows how to create a custom contextual tab on the ribbon in the Office UI. The sample creates a table, and when the user moves the focus inside the table, the custom tab is displayed. When the user moves outside the table, the custom tab is hidden. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Create custom contextual tabs on the ribbon](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-contextual-tabs/) | Create a custom contextual tab on the ribbon in the Office UI. The sample creates a table, and when the user moves the focus inside the table, the custom tab is displayed. When the user moves outside the table, the custom tab is hidden. |
```

> | [Use keyboard shortcuts for Office add-in actions](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-keyboard-shortcuts) | Shows how to set up a basic Excel add-in project that utilizes keyboard shortcuts. |

Reviewer 3: Previously, you say "This sample shows how" and here you say "Shows how". I suggest choosing one pattern for all descriptions. Either use "This sample shows how" or "Shows how" or better, lead with the action verb.
```suggestion
| [Use keyboard shortcuts for Office add-in actions](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-keyboard-shortcuts) | Set up a basic Excel add-in project that utilizes keyboard shortcuts. |
```

> | [Custom function sample using web worker](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/excel-custom-function-web-worker-pattern/) | Shows how to use web workers in custom functions to prevent blocking the UI of your Office Add-in. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Custom function sample using web worker](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/excel-custom-function-web-worker-pattern/) | Use web workers in custom functions to prevent blocking the UI of your Office Add-in. |
```

> | [Use storage techniques to access data from an Office Add-in when offline](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/use-storage-techniques-to-access-data-from-an-office-add-in-when-offline/) | Demonstrates how you can implement localStorage to enable limited functionality for your Office Add-in when a user experiences lost connection. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Use storage techniques to access data from an Office Add-in when offline](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/use-storage-techniques-to-access-data-from-an-office-add-in-when-offline/) | Implement localStorage to enable limited functionality for your Office Add-in when a user experiences lost connection. |
```
See previous suggestion and eliminate the "you can"!! ;-)

| [Custom function batching pattern](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/excel-custom-function-batching-pattern/)| Batch multiple calls into a single call to reduce the number of network calls to a remote service.|

## Shared JavaScript runtime

| Name                | Description         |
|:--------------------|:--------------------|

> [Share global data with a shared runtime](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-shared-runtime-global-data/) | Shows how to set up a basic project that uses the shared runtime to run code for ribbon buttons, task pane, and custom functions in a single browser runtime. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Share global data with a shared runtime](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-shared-runtime-global-data/) | Set up a basic project that uses the shared runtime to run code for ribbon buttons, task pane, and custom functions in a single browser runtime. |
```

> | [Manage ribbon and task pane UI, and run code on doc open](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-ribbon-task-pane-ui/) | Shows how to create contextual ribbon buttons that are enabled based on the state of your add-in. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Manage ribbon and task pane UI, and run code on doc open](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-ribbon-task-pane-ui/) | Create contextual ribbon buttons that are enabled based on the state of your add-in. |
```

## Authentication, authorization, and single sign-on (SSO)

| Name                | Description         |
|:--------------------|:--------------------|

> | [Single Sign-on (SSO) Sample Outlook Add-in](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | The sample implements an Outlook add-in that uses Office's SSO feature to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Single Sign-on (SSO) Sample Outlook Add-in](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | Use Office's SSO feature to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data.|
```

> | [Get OneDrive data using Microsoft Graph and msal.js in an Office Add-in](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-auth-graph-react/) | Learn how to build a Microsoft Office Add-in, as a single-page application (SPA) with no backend, that connects to Microsoft Graph, and access workbooks stored in OneDrive for Business to update a spreadsheet.  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Get OneDrive data using Microsoft Graph and msal.js in an Office Add-in](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-auth-graph-react/) | Build an Office Add-in, as a single-page application (SPA) with no backend, that connects to Microsoft Graph, and access workbooks stored in OneDrive for Business to update a spreadsheet.  |
```

| [Office Add-in auth to Microsoft Graph](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-auth-aspnet-graph/) | Learn how to build a Microsoft Office Add-in that connects to Microsoft Graph, and access workbooks stored in OneDrive for Business to update a spreadsheet. |

> | [Outlook Add-in auth to Microsoft Graph](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-auth-aspnet-graph/). | Learn how to build a Microsoft Outlook Add-in that connects to Microsoft Graph, and access workbooks stored in OneDrive for Business to compose a new email message. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Outlook Add-in auth to Microsoft Graph](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/outlook-add-in-auth-aspnet-graph/). | Build an Outlook add-in that connects to Microsoft Graph, and access workbooks stored in OneDrive for Business to compose a new email message. |
```

> | [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with ASP.NET](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | Use the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on ASP.NET. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with ASP.NET](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | Use the `getAccessToken` API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on ASP.NET. |
```

> | [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with Node.js](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-nodejs/) | Use the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on Node.js.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with Node.js](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-nodejs/) | Use the `getAccessToken` API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on Node.js.|
```

> | [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with ASP.NET](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | Implements an Office Add-in that uses the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on ASP.NET. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with ASP.NET](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-aspnet/) | Use the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on ASP.NET. |
```

> | [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with Node.js](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-nodejs/) | Implements an Office Add-in that uses the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on Node.js.|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Single Sign-on (SSO) Office Add-in with Node.js](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/office-add-in-sso-nodejs/) | Use the getAccessToken API in Office.js to give the add-in access to Microsoft Graph data. This sample is built on Node.js.|
```

## Additional samples

| Name                | Description         |
|:--------------------|:--------------------|
|[Use a shared library to migrate your Visual Studio Tools for Office add-in to an Office web add-in](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/vsto-shared-library-excel/) |Provides a strategy for code reuse when migrating from VSTO Add-ins to Office Add-ins. |

> | [Integrate an Azure function with your Excel custom function](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/azure-function-with-excel-custom-function/) | Learn how to integrate Azure functions with custom functions to move to the cloud or integrate additional services. |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| [Integrate an Azure function with your Excel custom function](/samples/officedev/pnp-officeaddins/azure-function-with-excel-custom-function/) | Integrate Azure functions with custom functions to move to the cloud or integrate additional services. |
```

---
title: Office Add-in code samples

> description: 'A list of Office Add-in code samples to help learn and build your own add-ins'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: 'A list of Office Add-in code samples to help your learn and build your own add-ins.'
```
